INTRODUCTION

    s2ibis3 is the latest version of the SPICE-to-IBIS conversion
    utility from North Carolina State University. It produces IBIS
    files which conform to the IBIS v3.2 specification.

    s2ibis3 is similar to s2ibis2. The main difference to it is that
    it is written in JAVA as compared to C and Lex and Yacc.
    s2ibis3 has its own command language, which is similar to the
    IBIS language in many respects, and can be easily extended to
    include new functionality. Because s2ibis3 creates a full IBIS 
    model in an internal data structure, and then writes the resulting
    information to the output file after all processing is done, s2ibis3
    can easily be extended to comply with future versions of the IBIS 
    specification.

    This document will describe the s2ibis3 command language
    and how to properly use it. I would strongly suggest examining
    the files in the examples/ directory to get a feel for how these
    commands are used.


THE COMMAND LANGUAGE

    -To run s2ibis3, type the following on the command line:
       
        % s2ibis3.csh -s2ibis3 buffer.s2i

     where buffer.s2i is the s2i command file as discussed later in
     the s2ibis3.txt
			
    -If there is a 'permission denied' error when running the .csh file, 
     change permissions by doing 

     	  % chmod 744 s2ibis3.csh

    -If it is desired, s2ibis3 could be run from a different directory 
     from the installation directory by using the
     '-root' switch with s2ibis3.csh as this example suggest:
			
        % s2ibis3 -root ../../s2i_install_dir -s2ibis3 buffer.s2i
			
			
windows
    
    -most of the instruction for unix apply for windows users as well.
    -To run s2ibis3, type the following on the command prompt:

  	  % s2ibis3.bat -s2ibis3 buffer.s2i
    
    -If the path variables are not set for java and the spice engines, 
     read instructions at http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/install-windows.html
     on how to set path variables for windows. s2ibis3 would not run if paths have
     not been set properly.

[note] % is not needed to be inserted in the command line.			

    
    The command file consists of two main sections: the header and
    the component description.

    Note that the command parser ignores case when it reads the
    command file, so you may specify the commands in upper or lower
    case, or a mix of the two.

    Also note that s2ibis3 has several reserved words:

        NA  specifies that the value is undefined
        NC  specifies no connection; can be used as model name
        +   line continuation character when found in first
            column of line
