Here's how s2ibis3 derives the curve data:

I) Pullup/pulldown curves:

    Pullup and pulldown curves are derived for "output" models.

    For both pullup and pulldown curves, s2ibis2 attaches an input
    voltage source and an output voltage source. The input voltage is
    set so the output tries to drive high (for the pullup curve) or low
    (for the pulldown curve). The output voltage is swept from 
    (Vgnd - Vcc) to (2 * Vcc), and the output current at each output
    voltage is recorded.

    If the driver has an enable input, this sweep is performed a second
    time with the driver disabled. (This gives the performance of
    whatever clamping structures may be present.) This curve is then
    subtracted from the curve obtained with the output enabled,
    resulting in a curve that models the performance of only the driver
    (i.e. it excludes the contributions made by the clamp structures).
    The 3-stated buffer is swept through the same range as the driving buffer. 
    The entire 3-stated data is subtracted from the entire driving data. 
    This is done for both the Pullup and Pulldown curves.


II) Clamp curves

    Power and ground clamp curves are derived for "input" models, and
    for "output" models with enable inputs.

    To find the power and ground clamp curves for "input" models,
    s2ibis3 simply attaches a voltage source to the associated pin, and
    sweeps the voltage source. The current at each voltage point is
    recorded.

    To find the clamp curves for "output" models with enable inputs, a
    voltage source is attached to the associated pin, the driver is
    disabled (via a voltage source attached to the enable pin), and the
    output voltage is swept. The current at each voltage point is
    recorded.
    
    The sweep range is (Vgnd - Vcc) to (Vgnd + Vcc) for ground clamp
    curves, and (Vcc) to (2 * Vcc) for power clamp curves.


III) Ramp rate curves   
    
    Ramp rates are derived for all "output" models.

    To find the ramp rates, s2ibis3 attaches the output pin of the
    driver to the appropriate termination voltage through the resistor
    Rload, and provides the appropriate stimulus at the input. The
    output waveform is then examined to find the 20% and 80% voltage
    points, and the time between them.
    
    The termination voltage is sometimes determined by model type: for
    open drain models, the output is terminated by Vcc; for open source
    models, the output is terminated by Vgnd; for ECL models, the output
    is terminated by the default ECL termination voltage. 
    For other model types, the termination voltage is
    determined by whether the curve is a rising ramp or falling ramp:
    for a rising ramp, the output is terminated to Vgnd; for a falling
    ramp, the output is terminated to Vcc.

    Rload may be specified in the command file with the [Rload] command;
    if it's not specified, it defaults to 50 Ohms.

    The input stimulus is constructed using the parameters given with
    the [Tr], [Tf], [Vil] and [Vih] commands or their default values.


IV) Rising/Falling Waveform curves

    Rising and falling waveforms are produced for "output" models when
    they are requested with the [Rising waveform] and [Falling waveform]
    commands.

    Deriving rising and falling waveforms is similar to deriving ramp
    rates: the output is attached to a user-specified termination
    voltage through a user-specified termination network. A user-defined
    stimulus is provided at the input, and the resulting output waveform
    is captured and saved.
